are we about to hit a brand new Tipping
Point in AI hey I'm Stu from Evolution
Unleashed today I'm going to explore
some of the quiet advances in AI that I
think most people have missed what am I
talking about well there's been a number
of recent
breakthroughs and while the hype cycle
is apparently dropping off I mean we've
had GPT 4 or versions thereof for more
than a year now without a major
update where it on the street is is
things are about to get a bit Shifty the
foundations we're used to standing on
they're going to start getting a bit
soft and let me tell you why I think AI
is about to reach this Tipping Point and
that Tipping Point is where it sort of
becomes so useful that it starts having
a cascading effect on productivity
workflows business entrepreneurship you
name
it let's start with open AI they've been
a bit quiet lately but rumors are coming
out now that will have GPT 5 or whatever
they want to call it in the next 2 or 3
months now they are merchants of hype
they promis voice I still don't have
voice and that was months ago and it was
going to be out in a few weeks but
eventually it will get here but the
thing about this new leap forward with
gp5 is that it has the new strawberry
reasoning they all qar which is
basically some new architecture that
allows the AI to
reason to think through what it's doing
a lot more when you combine that with
the promise of Agents that's AI that can
think for itself set its own tasks and
work to complete a complex set of tasks
without any human
intervention we're right on the cusp of
that becoming reality now we can do it
now but it's not easy and for most
people it's Out Of Reach but GPT 5 or
again whatever they want to call it GPT
next it is going to be significantly
different from the AIS we use today and
we're going to start seeing that
interactive Javis style where you can
interact with your AI refine what you're
doing and generate some really amazing
outputs okay but we're not just talking
about open AI there are other things
happening that make me believe we're
close to that pipping point the new
Gemini experimental models that are
available free in AI Studio I'll drop
the link in the
description my goodness these are
phenomenal
models the pro 0827 model Pro
1.5 is probably for me the best
marketing AI the best AI in terms of
understanding demographics and
psychographics being able to connect
messaging with Target markets creating
real really high quality writing and you
think about what these models can do
today compared to just 6 months ago it's
already quite mind-blowing yet the leap
we're about to take in the next two or
three months is going to make these AI
models look like basic
calculators it's really hard to quantify
just what that impact will look like but
let's turn and look at video Generation
Now open AI again they love the hype
they introduced
Sora oh six seven months ago and we
still don't have it it's apparently very
expensive to run takes a long time for
video Generations but we've got micro
tools like Runway ml which does 4 second
Clips very very well but it's hugely
expensive there's no free plan and for
you to learn you're basically learning
on your own dime in that you have to pay
to figure out how to use it and a lot of
people ared that's going to hurt Runway
but you know it's not just the Western
models you should be keeping an eye on
if you want to really get the pulse for
where AI is check out Minimax a brand
new AI text to video generator that does
four to 5c Clips based on a single
prompt which can be up to 500 characters
long and the quality is absolutely
mindblowing check out this 30second
video now
I'm no great film director I want you to
look at the quality of the video clips
these are all generated for free each
generation took 5 to 10 minutes
depending on how many people were ahead
of me in the queue but it was very fast
it did text as you'll see in the clip
[Music]
[Applause]
game over
the things we can do today are already
incredible but as I said earlier it's
out of reach for most people because it
requires a specific skill set and
mindset in order to really extract the
high value from AI but it won't always
be that way and here's the mistake most
people are making when they think about
AI we're still early we're comparing AI
generated output with human generated
output and we're saying human is better
AI generated output is
bad but people are forgetting this metal
section which is the AI and human
collaboration where we use these tools
like digital paint brushes like super
powerful tools to enhance our own
creativity and expertise I mentioned in
our recent newsletter in the thought
piece that I believe creatives will
inherit the Earth because when you have
a creative spark that you can give to AI
you can create whatever you can imagine
and in a world where everybody can
create with AI it's the Creative Vision
that people have that spark that is
going to set you apart from everybody
else AI is evolving and it's going to
evolve to what we call that Tipping
Point where it becomes so useful that it
makes absolutely no sense to do things
the old
way and those new ways well those Rule
books aren't written yet those playbooks
haven't been developed and it's people
like you and I who are pushing the edges
of
creativity that are going to find these
new use cases these new workflows and
the new way of creating
content there is a flood of bad content
coming but don't throw the baby out with
the bath water when it comes to
AI because at the end of the
day it's only as good as what we feed
it and there's going to be an average
Baseline of just mediocre AI content
that will never change but I mean look
at human content it's exactly the same
90% of human content is absolute utter
rubbish but that Baseline will increase
in terms of quality as AI becomes more
accessible and easy to use for people
anyway the point I want to make today is
simply that we are reaching that Tipping
Point and it's going to happen faster
than you think when we get there and
you're going to see content evolve very
rapidly we can already do some
significantly powerful
automations that can automate the entire
flow the problem is being that the AI
content just hasn't been up to scratch
and it still requires a lot of human
input to keep refining
it but as these AI models get B it'll be
much easier to generate natural sounding
content AI will be able to perfectly
mimic you and I in a year from now I put
my reputation on that because we already
can I can already create deep of myself
that are almost indistinguishable not
quite but if I tried that a year ago it
was hopeless a year from now you won't
know what's real and what's AI generated
that reality is bearing down on us
people haven't thought through those
implications and I don't think people
understand what it means but I'm focused
on positioning getting ready now
learning these tools pushing the edges
seeing what's possible and really
pushing the boundaries in terms of
creativity and use cases to come up with
new workflows video
music imagery all to a very high quality
the world as we know it is about to
change so buckle up I'm here to walk you
through the biggest changes show you
what's possible and my focus is entirely
on providing you with information that
will help you prepare
for the AI era because if you think it's
going to be like what's come before
you're wrong the world is changing and
you can either be a victim of that
change or a driver of that change that
choice is entirely yours but I know for
me it's all about figuring out how to
use these tools to create real world
value have a lot of fun doing it and
show what's truly possible in a world
where we're only limited by our
imagination I'll see you in the next one
peace wa hey now it's been a blast this
has been so great and all the lights are
dimmed will shine again my
friend everybody needs a break who will
return and trust me memories that we
make Will Keep Us full
ofly so take this time to rest we'll
meet back soon underneath the stars or
maybe beneath the moon keep that smile
on your face we'll be back to this
cherish all the
moments let the music hold on to this
feeling we'll be back one day